# noiseOnTree

This repository contains core codes for our paper on “Phylogenetic comparative analysis of single-cell transcriptomes reveals constrained accumulation of gene expression heterogeneity during clonal expansion”, as well as the processed data to facilitate direct reproduction of main figures. For detail information, please see our paper or directly email to me.

1.For lineage tree construction through raw reads of PacBio, please go to PacBio_Analysis_scripts and PacBio_analysis_pipeline files.

   For automatic running, please go to PacBio_analysis_pipeline files. 

   For manual running, please go to PacBio_Analysis_scripts files. 
   Using "python [name of the script] -h" to view the helpfile for each script.

2.Fig2
  
  The final datasets in "datafig2e-f" of "fig2e-f" were generated by "fig2e-f.R" (line1-line410). For finally ploting, plese go to line 412.
  
3.Fig3
  
  The final datasets in "datafig3" of "fig3" were generated by "fig3.R" (line1-line202). For finally ploting, plese go to line 207.

4.Fig4
  
  The final datasets in "datafig4b-c" of "fig4b-c" were generated by "fig4b-c.R" (line1-line237). For finally ploting, plese go to line 240.
  
  The final datasets in "datafig4d-e" of "fig4d-e" were generated by "fig4d-e.R" (RNA velocity: line1-line254; OU: line257-line393). For finally ploting, plese go to     line 396.

5.Fig5

  The co-fluctuating gene pairs datasets of "fig5" were generated by "fig5.R" (pic.cor: line1-line73; original.cor: line76-line141)
  
6.simulation data (down- and up- sampled, fig2g)

  The down- and up- sampled datasets of sample 1 (simulationUPandDOWNdatafig2g) were generated by "6.simulationdown-andup-fig2g.R" (down-: line15-line729; up-: line730-line843).
  
7.simulation data (OU and BM models, figs11)
  
  The final datasets in "simulationOUandBMdata" of "figs11" were generated by "simulationofOUandBM.R" (line1-line207). For finally ploting, plese go to line 210.
